# Synthetic Data Generation from gsm8k



Task used for generating data from gsm8k

Generation is based on the XWin paper (https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.04706)



Path generation rules are defined by `dataloader` configuration.



#### Tasks



- There may be several tasks.

- Currently, we only support the generation of new data example based on an existing one.

- In the future, we may provide a fancier prompt and separate the tasks into three steps as described by the XWin paper



To start the task run `PYTHONPATH=. python -m src.__main__ --data-paths ./tasks/research/gsm8k/qna_rits.yaml`.



#### Document generation rules



The code is designed to generate new examples based on a given input.

Each example consists of three elements: Question, Solution, and Answer.

Currently, the only filter applied ensures that none of these elements are empty.



##### Fixed path



The original `gsm8k` dataset, used to generate new data, is specified in the `.yaml` configuration file located at:



```plaintext

./tasks/research/gsm8k/qna_vllm.yaml

```



Within this file, the dataset path is defined under the parameter:



```yaml

file_path: ./data/research/gsm8k/gsm8k_10.json

```



The file `./data/research/gsm8k/gsm8k_10.json` is provided as an example and contains 10 data samples.

For complete data generation, you’ll need to point to the full gsm8k dataset instead.



### Converting to standard training format



To convert the data generated by DiGiT to the standard training format please use:

`PYTHONPATH=. python fms_dgt/research/databuilders/generation/gsm8k/gsm8k_output_converter.py output/gsm8k_vllm/data.jsonl output/gsm8k_vllm/data_formatted.jsonl `
